---
layout: post
title: Words
---
This is a simple web page. Not much to see here but some words. And you're reading them.

Everybody is impressed with fancy designs, responsive layouts, and scripts that do magical things. But the most powerful tool on the web is still words.

I live in New York City; you're probably somewhere else. I wrote this late in the evening on June 23, 2013; you're probably reading it at a different time. I wrote this on my iPad; you could be reading this on your phone, a tablet or a desktop.

You and I have been able to connect because I wrote this and you're reading it. That's the web. Despite our different locations, devices and time-zones we can connect here, through a simple web page.

I wrote this in a text editor. It's 3.8 KB. I didn't need a Content Management System, a graphic designer, or a software developer. There's very little markup for paragraphs, hierarchy, and emphasis.

And you're still reading.

Think about all the things you could communicate with a simple page like this. If you're an entrepreneur, you could sell something. If you're a teacher, you could teach something. If you're an artist, you could show something you've made. And if your words are good, people will read them.

If you're a web designer, or a client who is working with one, I challenge you to think about words first. Instead of starting with a style guide or a Photoshop mockup, start with words on a page.

What do you have to say? If you don't know, there's not much use in adding all the fluff. Just start with one file, with a single focus. Write it and publish it, and then iterate on that. Every time you're about to add something, ask yourself, "Does this help me communicate better? Will that additional styling, image, or hyperlink give my audience more understanding?"

If the answer is no, don't add it.

At its heart, web design should be about words. Words don't come after the design is done. Words are the beginning, the core, the focus.

Start with words.

*Inspired by [Justin Jackson](http://justinjackson.ca/words.html) and [Romain Schmitz](http://slopjong.de/words.txt).*