---
layout: post
title: "Case Studies"
---

### Complete rebranding of a fitness company

Founded in 2007 as a boutique personal training firm, this company's original plan was to work with athletes and students. But after two years of no significant growth, it needed help. Without quick intervention, the company was doomed to fail.

After careful analysis, I made two changes:

1. **Reposition in another niche.** The clients who brought in the most consistent long-term business were not athletes, but actually finance professionals with no connection whatsoever to sports. I pivoted the company away from training athletes, and positioned it instead as an expert in training finance professionals.

2. **Rebrand the entire company.** The change in unique selling proposition required a complete rebranding of the company, including a new name, a new design, new service packages, and a new voice for the marketing materials. I renamed the company, and rewrote all of the marketing to include language and service options that would resonate on an emotional level with my new target market.

These changes reduced advertising costs 25% over 6 months, raised client retention to 84% in about that same time, and generated $30,000 in additional revenue over the following year.

### 200% growth at an Internet startup

This small Internet startup matched attorneys with potential clients through a proprietary algorithm. The company was slowly gaining traction, and the CEO wanted to increase monthly recurring revenue by penetrating new geographic markets.

After assessing their current set-up, I recommended two changes:

1. **Targeted messages.** The sales team was cold calling prospects in an attempt to generate business. This system was too slow, and led to a high percentage of dead ends. I focused the marketing efforts on a smaller number of higher quality leads: prospects already familiar with technology, and who were already using similar services at a similar price point. We filtered the list of leads and rewrote the call script to include language that would appeal to this specific type of prospect.

2. **Better split testing.** The new call script required split testing to ensure the new language made an impact. I recommended implementing a centralized system to track how successful each version of the new script was at converting leads to paying customers.

My recommendations increased paid memberships 200% over 1 year.
